Special notes for Windows builds
--------------------------------

Native Windows versions of the library have been built and successfully
tested with the MinGW-w64 GCC toolchain, running in an MSYS2 environment on
a Windows 7/x86_64 machine.  More details on this procedure are presented
below.  Inasmuch as great care has been devoted to ensuring the code avoids
(unconditional) non-standardisms and reliance on implementation-defined
behavior, however, and given that its external dependencies (ICU and
SQLIte 3) are available for Windows from their respective authors, it
should be straightforward to build the library, examples, and test programs
via other Windows toolchains as well.


* Building CIF API with MinGW-w64 on MSYS2 *

Step 1: Set up an MSYS2 environment
- An installer is available from the Project's Sourceforge site:
  http://sourceforge.net/projects/msys2/

- It's best to avoid installing in or under a directory with whitespace in
  its name (i.e. "Program Files").

- The installer will provide launchers for several variants of the MSYS2
  environment; the "MinGW-w64 Win64 Shell" launcher was used for CIF API
  building.  (This launches a bash shell running in a window.)

- In the MSYS2 environment, /home can be mapped to the Windows user
  directory by adding an entry to /c/etc/fstab:

  /c/Users /home any binary,bind,posix=0,nouser

  Configuring so (and afterward launching a new instance of the environment)
  is useful for ensuring that the contents of user home directories are
  preserved in the event that MSYS2 is removed or updated (as the users'
  Windows "home" directories will be used).

- Install the needed toolchain and dependencies via the MSYS2 package
  manager, 'pacman':

  pacman --sync mingw-w64-x86_64-toolchain
  pacman --sync mingw-w64-x86_64-icu
  pacman --sync mingw-w64-x86_64-sqlite3


Step 2: Building the CIF API
- Building the project in MSYS2 is nearly identical to building it
  on Linux or OS X.

- Unpack the source distribution into a directory of your choice:

  cd work
  tar xzf cif-api-0.3.0.tgz
  cd cif-api-0.3.0

- Configure for building.  This is where the main difference comes
  in, as building native Win32 binaries with MinGW-w64 is an act of
  cross compilation.  You must therefore pass an appropriate --host
  option to the 'configure' program, for example

  ./configure --host=x86_64-w64-mingw32

  to build a 64-bit library for 64-bit Windows.  Alternatively, these
  host triplets might also be of interest: 'i686-w64-mingw32' for a 32-bit
  library and executables for 64-bit Windows, or 'i686-w32-mingw32' for a
  32-bit and executables for 32-bit Windows (which should also run on
  64-bit Windows).

  You may also provide any of the other options supported by the
  configuration program, such as '--enable-examples', '--prefix', or
  '--bindir'.

- Build via the 'make' command.  Unless you are cross-compiling a version
  that will not run on the build host (i.e. a 64-bit build on a machine
  running 32-bit Windows), you are advised to build and run the tests, too.

  'make' or 'make all' - build the library, and, if selected, the example
                         programs
  'make check'         - build everything that 'make all' would build that
                         is not yet built, and also build and run the test
                         suite.

- Install via the 'make' command:

  make install

  The software will be installed to the directory specified via 'configure'
  (MSYS2's /usr/local/bin by default).  Note in particular that the DLL is
  installed in the configured 'bin' directory, not the 'lib' directory.  The
  libdir does receive a couple of files, but these can be ignored.


* Building the CIF API with other toolchains *

No support is currently provided for building on Windows with other
toolchains, such as Visual Studio, but inasmuch as the code is highly
portable and has already been adapted for Win32 on the MinGW64 tools,
it is anticipated that builds via other toolchains will be relatively
straightforward.  With that said, there are a few things to be aware of:

- The few conditional compilation directives that distinguish
  Windows-specific details from others do so based on whether the
  _WIN32 preprocessor macro is defined.

- When building the CIF API itself for Win32, the library's external
  functions will be declared __declspec(dllexport), PROVIDED THAT the
  preprocessor macro DLL_EXPORT is defined.  To build a static library,
  ensure that DLL_EXPORT is not defined, AND define preprocessor macro
  LIBCIF_STATIC.

- When building Windows programs that use the CIF API cif.h header file,
  the DLL_EXPORT macro must NOT be defined.  No macro is needed to provide
  for linking against a DLL version of the API library, but to link against a
  static version of the library, the macro LIBCIF_STATIC should be
  defined prior to including the cif.h header.

